>> James Halliday: Now I just wanna
cover some more utilities that you're
very likely to find on
pretty much any Unix system.
So the first one is called head,
we've used it a few times already.
It prints out starting from the beginning
of a file, it prints out a certain number
of characters or a certain number of lines
starting from the beginning of a file.
So if I do head -n5 moby-dick.txt,
I see the first five lines.
There's also one called tail,
tail is like head but
it starts at the end,
and it reads backwards.
So if I want the last five lines,
I can do that.
Head and tail,
if you don't specify a file name,
we'll read from standard in by default.
So if you have other commands,
that's like spammy, and
you only care about the last bit or the
first bit, see we have our git log, right.
If I only want the first line of output,
I can pipe into head-n1,
and I get just the commit message,
which is kind of handy.
>> James Halliday: If you read the man
page for head, there's different options,
-n gives you the number of lines, but
if you want the number of characters or
bytes you can use -c.
So for example if I do had -c 10,
I just get the first 10 characters.
And you can see that it doesn't
give a new line there so
you gotta hit enter if you want.
Just type it in, or you could do that and
that would add a new line.
Get a little more into how to
chain tick of a commands in a bit.